Let students work in groups.
Talk for about 50% of the time, they want to hear from an expert.
Guage student interaction, always be open to questions.
Make sure to include applications of what you're teaching, it has to have a purpose.
Students should be active learners, they are motivated intrinsically so you have to let them learn actively.


Checklist:
Students know what to expect (write out agenda)
Learning objectives are visible (write on board)
Keep time, don't let lessons go over time or under time
Devote time to practice, not just lecture
Make sure students are learning, check early and often

Tactics:
Think, Pair, Share - Think for a minute, talk to your partner, share with the class
Fist of five - on a scale from 0 to 5 rate how comfortable you are

Lesson Specific Guidelines:
Communicate what your students will learn, why it is important, how it realates to previous lessons, communicate how it will be taught.
Tell them how to behave, "raise your hands at any time if you have questions"
Determine what students should be able to do by the end of the lesson
Use multiple approaches to convey the new information
What will the students be doing during the lesson
How will you guage student understanding? Target misunderstanding and understanding
Creativity is a means, not an end. Make sure any activities don't distract away from what the lesson is designed to teach
Don't single out students to present, let everyone participate
Practice exercises should start easy and then get hard
If you have time left, continue to engage students with problems of increasing complexity
If a lot of students don't understand the concept, give more ooportunities for practice and time to ask questions
If there is a gap inunderstanding, assign bonus and double bonus to keep the smartest students occupied while the other students catch up
Don't drown students in details, emphasize key points
Be mindful of potential pitfalls
Emphasize the objective of the lesson, significance of the lesson, and assess student mastery at the end of the lesson

Lesson Plan:

Objectives: Class Inheritance, What is it? Why do we use it?
Agenda: Instruction, Partner Work, Regroup, Solo Work

Intro (1 min):

  Quick refresh of OOP (classes and methods)
  Show a before example on the overhead (two classes with common methods)

Lecture (5 min):

  Show inheritance in code
  Show an after example of the intro code
  Explain what is happening, prove it with output
  Introduce bugs, address potential sources of misunderstand
  Show an example in rails just so the students can see how it relates

Class Assignment (5 min):

  Fist of 5 test.
  Write, pair, share. Give the students a short assignment.
  Tell them to try to come up with something on their own and then pair up.

Eval (2 min):

  Take volunteers then go over the assignment as a class.

Individual Assignment (5 min):

  Take on the assignment alone. Feel free to ask me questions or use google/stack overflow etc. but do your best to get a feel for how it works.

Close (2 min):

  Group discussion. Ask students to talk about what inheritance is and what it does.
  Make sure everyone understands what is happening.
